General comments:
	Ch. 1
		I found the introduction to lack a bit of broader context. Starting by saying what the Standard Model says elevates it above its status as "a very descriptive theory" to almost a set of religious laws. It would help to mention that the Standard Model has been validated extensively with tests of particle production and interactions, across a very broad range of energy, etc., but that a) there are questions of internal consistency, and b) we know that there are things it does not/cannot describe, e.g. dark matter/energy, neutrino masses, etc. 
		Another lack of context is in the description of interaction vertices on pgs. 1, 2. This implicitly introduces the paradigm of perturbative quantum field theory and Feynman diagrams without explicitly saying so. This represents a single (very successful and helpful) way of organizing our understanding and arriving at results, but it is not the only, or only valid, way of approaching problems, especially as we will see the shortfalls of the perturbative approach in the coming sections with the impact of non-perturbative QCD in the experimental regime of the experiment discussed.
		There is also a problem of a lack of care for the audience of the thesis. For example, the description of the QCD Lagrangian assumes a knowledge of the quantum property of color. This raises the question of what reader would be familiar with QCD color, but unfamiliar with the most basic thing about QCD: its Lagrangian. I would recommend giving serious thought to who is meant to read this document -- should the introduction at least be accessible to any adult? Any physicist of any level of education? Any professional particle/nuclear physicist? I won't impose my own view (which is along the lines of: the thesis should start from the most general possible level such that almost anyone can read the first few pages to have a sense of where your topic of study fits within humanity's overall understanding of nature, and gradually by the end filter down to experts in your domain of study (and motivated students in that field looking for information, and committee members evaluating your work)); my point is that it should at least be consistent, and have some idea of who it is speaking to. 
		There is a lack of restraint/tact in what is included. Pgs. 9 - 14 largely fell into the category of: it's very good to know, but better once the material is understood to simply claim a given useful fact for the narrative of the thesis, and cite resources as necessary. There just isn't enough space allotted here to re-derive all of the important concepts in pQCD, so the resulting discussion feels very slapdash. An interested reader can follow the citation and read the derivations there, while the one who either knows it already or is more interested to see the work that you did can more quickly get to that without wondering if particular intermediate steps will become important later. 
		Finally, I don't feel the studies are currently motivated enough -- we finish the first chapter with a description of Monte Carlo, then the outline, but nowhere do I feel it currently mentions why the studies performed for this thesis were an important contribution to the field without which we would understand less. Toward the end of the last section it mentions "prob[ing] the dependence of energy loss on the path length traversed in the medium" -- this would be a good place to start for a motivation but currently it's just thrown out there with no justification. And in general, jets as a hard probe are not sufficiently motivated -- the QGP is mentioned in less than a page, and jets as useful tomographic probes are not really mentioned at all. This would be okay if the thesis were only on pp collisions, but as you'll show heavy-ion results, this should really be rectified.

	Ch. 5
		In general, there is a lot more room for discussion of the systematic uncertainties in ch. 5. Looking at trends, explaining them, etc. See specific comment on Table 5.2 below. 
		
	Ch. 6
		This chapter is far too short given that it represents the bulk of the experimental analysis that you lead during your PhD. As just one example, you just present a bulleted list of uncertainties, no citations, no explanation, etc. Picking one to highlight, you mention "variation of hadronic correction" with no explanation of why we use 100% by default, why 50% is adequate, etc. (Think about MIPs, electrons, pions, etc.) There's a helpful paper from 2019 I think (the dijet ALL). Try digging that up, or take a look at my thesis where I think I explained it. In general, systematics are one of the major parts of your analysis, so it should be demonstrated that you understand why each choice is made rather than just check a box to say "I did it." This is the difference between a PhD student and a PhD, and I know you understand things well enough now to fall into the latter category, so just take some more time to go through things and demonstrate your understanding. In general currently it just comes off that you got to ch. 6 as you were writing and just ran out of time before needing to send it in.
		Again, you should also make it clear how you contributed, what the status of the analyses are, etc. I would recommend developing them to the point that you have a chapter for each analysis (currently the Au+Au work is practically a throwaway, where your conclusion about it is roughly a short paragraph. Given how much time you spent on it, it deserves more (the p+p should also be dedicated more space although it's better). 
		
	Ch. 7
		As mentioned before, needs more discussion of: what the motivation was (what was the field like before you vs. after you), what your contribution was, what the current status of each analysis is (e.g. published, preparing for collaboration committee review, preliminary results, etc.), and what we have learned, the caveats, and the potential future improvements/steps (you do have some of this last part already but could be more developed). 
		

Specific comments:
	Ch. 1
		pg. 1 -- L and F are not explicitly described.
		pg. 3 -- "The QCD Lagrangian can be written as"
			-- "density which shows interaction of"
		pg. 4 -- Please check eqs. 1.4 and 1.5 again -- there appear to be some oddities.
		pg. 6 -- You are not alone -- I have seen this incorrect logic in every thesis I've ever edited: "low-energy => coupling diverges => confinement" is improper. The coupling does not diverge: the determination of the coupling from perturbative QCD diverges. But when the coupling is large enough, we should no longer be using perturbative QCD to tell us anything about nature! We must then switch our thinking to non-perturbative QCD, which tells us that the coupling should actually flatten at some low Q value (as it must, because in nature we don't really get divergences [another way of saying this would be that the Landau pole is unphysical] -- e.g. the proton has a finite size so the coupling cannot diverge at large distances). [See e.g. https://arxiv.org/pdf/1604.08082 -- I highly recommend reading as much of this as you can get through as it is extremely insightful and helps retrain your brain away from using perturbative hammers as the only tool in your toolbox even when problems are not nails but instead screws.] Anyway, what this means is that the first logical link is broken. What happens to the second one? Well we now have a finite coupling, and yet still also confinement. So something else must be going on. In the article I link above they also point out that "For example the coupling is finite in QCD(1+1) which is a confining theory." So it is not necessary that one have a diverging coupling to produce a confining theory. 
		pg. 9 -- "Altarelli"
		pg. 17 -- I found the statement "...and the spread between them is the usual way of gauging how much of a prediction is genuinely perturbative." to be strange. There can be zero spread between predictions from e.g. Herwig and Pythia and it can still be an entirely non-perturbative problem. Tunes have so many parameters that this is likely enough -- if I fiddle with enough knobs I can get anything to agree with anything else.
			-- It isn't really made clear what "strings" are in this context. E.g. the phrase "hadronizes with strings" is unclear to the general reader.

	Ch. 2
		pg. 19 -- "is" -> "was" (and in general, past tense, e.g. "afford" -> "afforded") in all cases, since the RHIC mission is now complete.
		eq. 2.1 -- typo in the equation for \varphi.
		pg. 25 -- "over a range of 0.2...", as sure the definition of "accurately" is up for debate, but the reader might be confused later then about why you would introduce a selection of 0.2 GeV for track momenta if we can be accurate, according to some definition, below that.
		pg. 27 -- If you mention the drift time here, you should mention that the t_0 is obtained from a fast detector like the VPD.
			-- "compromise the measurement precision" is vague. You can explain that the low curvature means e.g. 40 is practically indistinguishable from e.g. 60 GeV which leads to a larger-than-acceptable momentum resolution.
		pg. 29 -- This is stated a bit too simplistically. You can see from the figure that the bands start to overlap for most of the particles well below 1 GeV, e.g. pions and muons, and the deuteron band is still distinct from others well above 1 GeV. 
		
	Ch. 3
		pg. 32 -- typo: i_min -> d_min.
		3.1.1 -- This section could use a rewrite. The topic of SoftDrop is not motivated at all, and somewhat comes out of nowhere. Similarly, the "convenient choice...for the soft threshold parameter zcut and the angular exponent beta" are not defined or explained. The discussion of the basically CollinearDrop'd observable in eq. 3.4 is a) not crediting the CollinearDrop paper, and b) is presented in an over-simplified way: the npQCD contribution to the observable is not literally identically equal to the difference between the groomed and ungroomed versions. 
			-- 3.1.1 -> 3.2.
		Sec. 3.2 is a single sentence? Did you mean to finish it later but forget?
		Fig. 3.2.3 -> Do you mean Fig. 3.5? Similarly, 3.2.4 -> 3.6.
		After eq. 3.14 you say "which determines the number of participating nucleons and number of binary collisions Nbin" -- a) the definition of T_AA is in terms of number of binary collisions (and inelastic nucleon-nucleon cross section), and b) you use N_coll in the equation but N_bin in the text. 
		pg. 44 -- Careful, although this isn't a STAR publication, it would still be great not to make it seem that the di-hadron correlation is obsolete, as we just used it in the O+O quenching PRL this year.
		pg. 45 -- Jets also suffer from selection/survival bias, as we still have a minimum pT requirement in most analyses (and if we don't, the problem is that it becomes unclear what such an object is, physically). Anyway, for this reason I would not say "mostly unbiased". They are different, as with a high-pT hadron, if it is found it was relatively unmodified, but with a high-pT jet if it was found it could be that it was unmodified, or it could have been highly modified but with that resulting radiation mostly captured within the cone such that the overall jet quantities are relatively unchanged. Or it could be somewhere in between with some modification including some out-of-cone radiation which reduces the jet pT for example. I would also mention here a major difference being that the high-pT hadron studies are also convoluting the fragmentation function, which the jet quantities do not necessarily do, depending on the observable.
		pg. 46 -- Where are you getting "60% of the energy lost outside the jet cone"? Is this by noting that the RCP is 0.6? But this is a yield comparison, so the amount of energy loss can only be obtained by looking at the spectra modification, which is also different between RHIC and the LHC as they have different spectral slopes/shapes.
		
	Ch. 4
		pg. 50 -- "followed by normalization. "
			-- starting at the bottom of pg. 50 and onto pg. 51, the level of jargon just explodes. For someone like me who is not a machine learning person, this is only barely legible. I would suggest either moving details to an appendix or explaining each term at least briefly, your choice.	
		pg. 51 -- It seems the sentence here was cut off, just before sec. 4.2.2. It would be good to continue to say what fig. 4.4 actually tells us about the per-pixel importance and more generally about interpretability of the model presented here.
		Fig. 4.3 -- missing caption.
		Fig. 4.5 -- I'm a bit surprised it's barely better than random. That is, all of these features are unable to help the DNN determine what is a heavy-ion jet and what is a vacuum jet much better than chance, even in the most central case. Of course, better than chance is still good, but if the goal would be to apply this to data it would raise the question of whether this classification is good enough to handle the increased complications of data (e.g. backgrounds, etc.)
		pg. 55 -- It's a little funny to say "p_tr is what we want to measure" since we measure the measured, not the truth. Try "p_tr is what we want to know/obtain/determine/find" (your choice of word there as long as it's not "measure").
		pg. 56/7 -- Sorry, this is probably my own problem, but I found the description of fakes and misses here unclear. Can you go into a bit more detail?
		pg. 58 -- Can you take a look at the paragraph just before the Barlow Test section and consider rewording? I'm not exactly sure what you're trying to say here. 

	Ch. 5
		pg. 59 -- "The away-side consists of the hadrons associated with the trigger jet", well yes, but also the near-side consists of hadrons associated with the trigger jet...
			-- This is another example of it being unclear what the motivation is. You say "The goal of this analysis is to study the conditional yield of associated particles..." but don't explain why that would be helpful/important. Relatedly, you mention path-length dependence on the next page, but don't say why that is an interesting thing to search for. This feeds back into the general comment about lack of motivation / consideration for the readership of the thesis (at the very least, should be intelligible to your committee which is composed not just of me and Sevil, but also physicists in other fields.
		pg. 60 -- Should mention somewhere that it is published, and cite it at that point. Also your role in the analysis. 
			-- I could go reread the paper, but this claim "will be most sensitive to any path-length dependencies" due to the selection on 20-50% is a bit suspect to me. The justification for using event shape engineering is that there are dramatic shape/particle-production fluctuations which mean that the energy density could be roughly fixed by a centrality selection, but the overlapping shape is not necessarily as almond-like as you would naïvely expect (and after all, this pancake nucleus mental model is a zeroth-order cartoon picture which doesn't take into account the nucleons' random positions, etc.) 20-50% is also a very broad range (assumedly to maximize statistics) which would include both a significant variation in energy density across the range, but also in shape even if we accept that no further selections are necessary to obtain this almond-shape. To me it's not surprising then that there is no effect eventually observed. Of course the paper is what it is, but in this section I would appreciate you adding either a refutation of my point ("One might expect that there is a difficulty in connecting this centrality range to a specific initial geometry because of fluctuations, but ... [prove me wrong here]"), or if no refutation exists, add a qualification like "One limitation of the analysis is in the connection between centrality and ellipticity, due to ..."
		pg. 62 -- Ah I didn't realize a boost-invariant pT^2 recombination scheme was used. Can you explain in the text of the document why that is?
			-- You don't mention hadronic correction.
		pg. 63 -- You haven't described mixed events yet when it's first mentioned in passing, so you should move up your description, e.g. to right after "from a trigger jet associated with charged hadrons from mixed events. These are events constructed with...", then include your paragraph starting "The event-mixing procedure used in this analysis..."
		pg. 67 -- Somehow things feel out of order. You talked before about using the large delta eta region as a background determination but only now in your description of RPF talk about why this is. For nonexperts this will be very unclear. 
			-- looks like a messed up tex macro here for the pT,assoc range (same thing for captions of figures 5.3 and 5.4 and tables 5.2 and 5.3, and throughout the rest of the thesis). 
		Fig. 5.3 -- Do you actually reference this in the text? I don't see it anywhere. 
		pg. 69 -- Really, all particles of gen-level are required to be in their final state? (I.e. weak decays which happen at late times aren't handled by Geant?)
		Table 5.2 -- Silly question (again I could read the paper again but guess I'm too lazy). Why does the acceptance shape uncertainty have such a large impact on the yields (at low pT,assoc)? Shouldn't it be more relevant for the width? I would also have expected the JES correction to be more relevant to the yields (which for low jet pT they are) than the width, but for the 20 - 40 GeV range it flips (well mostly, although not for out-of-plane I guess). Also, why is the acceptance shape uncertainty so much higher for 20 - 40 GeV than 15 - 20 GeV jets for the low-pT assoc? Was a Barlow check done to ensure there wasn't a large contribution from statistical uncertainties to the systematics?
		pg. 72 -- Just to clarify: is the <rho> shift described here what is meant by "JES correction" in the table? 
		pg. 75 -- It's an indication either that modifications dependent on average path length are smaller than experimental uncertainties OR that the biased sample does not experience modifications dependent on path length OR that the engineering of a difference in path length has not been successful (which is unknowable except via models).
		pg. 80 -- This statement is a bit confusingly placed: the pT,assoc dependence. You mention it when talking about the table, as if it is shown in the table. You should make it clear that you mean that the pT,assoc dependence from the *plot* can make the fit to a constant to be unadvised. But the interesting thing is that the worst chi^2 is the away-side at high jet pT for out/in, which is unexplained by this caveat, so that would be good to address. Or in some other way clarify this point a bit in the text.
		pg. 82 -- Not sure how this analysis makes the case that existing Monte Carlos need to be re-tuned. I would remove this statement. 
		
	Ch. 6
		pg. 85 -- "A plurality" typically means "less than a majority but more than any other option" so I would avoid unnecessary confusion by just saying "at least two charged tracks, corresponding to at least one split"
			-- Would be good to explain why zcut = 0.2 is used rather than the usual pp zcut = 0.1.
		pg. 86 -- Fig what and what?
		pg. 88 -- Figs what and what? 
		pg. 89 -- "The distributions and Rg profiles are generally well explained within statistical/systematic uncertainties by PYTHIA-6, PYTHIA-8 and HERWIG-7" -- are they?
		pg. 90 -- Check captions for Figs. 6.6 and 6.8.
		pg. 94 -- I know we've been through this, but I still find it weird that Pythia6 agrees with the data so much better than Pythia8 and Herwig7 which are often right on top of each other for these observables. Especially since I think you use at least the Detroit tune for Pythia8 (and maybe the Nashville/New Haven tune for Herwig7? Either way the tunes should be mentioned and cited for clarity if they weren't already). 
		
	Ch. 7
		pg. 99 -- You mention here for the first time that this was the first heavy-ion measurement with MultiFold. This raises a point that you should make this more clear at the time you present the work initially (and in general, mention when something is "the first ___"). The thesis describes your contribution to the field which makes it vital to point out where you have pushed the field forward. You can even talk about difficulties in applying the method for the first time to this environment and how you overcame them. I know you did a lot of work on the ML side of things, and that really doesn't come through in the thesis. 

	Bibliography
		References 2 - 5 are missing info.
	
